Okay, so I got the page up for the MySQL
Docker image and this is official
documentation on it. We want to work
with the version 5.7 of MySQL, which is
fine. That's currently the latest at the
time recording of this, which is just
fine for us. Let's take a quick look
at the documentation. I want to point out
a couple things here. So now one thing we
have not talked about here is linking
containers, and this is a quick tip here -
if you need to link to containers and
this would be another application, giving
it the name of that MySQL container. So
this is a handy way to wire up two of
them. We're not going to get into that,
at this point in time. We will get that in
the future. But what I mainly wanted to
do is point out how to use environment
variables. Now this MySQL instance does
have several environment variables.
The one that we wanted to look at was to
allow an empty password, so we're going
to allow an empty root password, even
though we shouldn't, which is a bad
habit. This is a development sandbox and
for the longest time MySQL has used a
null password for root. So not a good
habit if we're running in production, but
for development sandbox, it's just fine.
You're not going to really break anything.
Now the other caveat is, I am going to
use a minus v in this this demonstration,
for my own, specify my own data directory.
We'll get into that once I go to run
that. Now I jump over and take a quick
look at the Docker file, just so you guys
can see some of those. So it is hosted up
on GitHub, obviously. We can see that
it is from a Debian instance, with the
tag of jessie, and this is all the stuff
that they did to prepare that Docker
image for MySQL. We can see that's
exposing port 3306.
So what I want to do now is let's jump
over to the command line, and let me show
you exactly where I'm at here. So I am
sitting in the users directory under my
home account
of jt, that's my username. I've
created a directory called tmp. And
that's where we want to use to put our
data at. So if I do an ls, you can see
there's nothing in there. So I'm going to
clear this. And now let's go ahead and
paste in a command. I cheated and
prepared ahead of time. I just want to
go through this. I can understand
everything. We have docker run. That's
going to run an image, and we are giving the
container name of guru-mysql. Now the
important part here is we have the minus
e parammeter. We have MySQL_ALLOW_EMPTY_PASSWORD equal yes, that's going to
allow us to have an empty root password.
Now the next one is the user. I can
see I have a mistake in my command here,
so I'm going to scroll over to that. We
just definitely do not want this - there.
So now we can see - v for volume and
I'm going to map the directory. I'm
currently in that /Users/jt
/temp to var/lib/mysql. That is the
the directory that MySQL is going
to be writing data out into. The next
thing is that we want to map the local
host of 3306 to the container port of
3306. We're going to give it a - d to run
it back in the background, as a Daemon
process. And then we're going to say mysql.
And just to remind you, that the MySQL, by
default, that image tag is going to
go up to Docker hub. Pull down the image
MySQL from Docker hub with the tag of
the latest because I'm omitting the tag.
So let's go ahead and hit enter now.
We can see that simply started, and we
didn't see anything come down. That's
because I've been running MySQL on this
machine, so my MySQL images are already
there, and if I do a docker ps, you can
see that MySQL is running. Now I'm going to
come over here to MySQL utility. I'm
sending here connecting to the default
of 3306 with root. Say if I can connect.
And I am connected to the database.
So we can see that I've successfully
connected to the database running on
localhost inside of Docker container. Now
there's one last part, that I wanted to
show you. If I toggle back over here to
the command line, where we can see our
MySQL images running. Remember we
allocated storage to it, and I set it to
use this volume. So we are still in that
temp directory, where I mounted the
volume point at. If I do an ls here,
or even ls minus tlr, now we can see
the file system that was set up by MySQL.
So this is all the stuff that MySQL is
going to utilize to store data in for our
persistent database. So this will stay
there on the system. If we recycle the
container and bring up a different MySQL
instance and pointed at this, these are
the data files that MySQL needs. Our
data will be persisted and we can
restart containers and bring up a
different container and everything
should be happy. Okay I'm sure a lot of
times you've used MySQL in the past and
used on your local machine in
development mode. Now you're kind of
locked into having that single MySQL
instance installed on your machine. Now
I've been using a Docker container for
MySQL for the last couple months. I really
like it. It's pretty handy to
use. The only problem I've seen in doing
it this way, obviously, you need to have
your image up and running because sometimes
running OS X, if I close down and come
back up in a Power Save mode,
occasionally, I'll have to balance the
Docker Daemon. Not a big deal.
Things just don't recognize for
somewhere, so it's kind of a
weird thing to OS X. But as a developer,
I'm really liking this because I have my
own MySQL configuration for this
database. I'm working on this client here,
works out great and shut him down,
bring up a different data directory and
bring him up for a whole different
project, not a problem. Just using
different Docker containers and
different configurations. Something has
been more difficult having a permanently
installed MySQL instance running on my
local host, where I can't toggle over to
different data environments
that easily. So having Docker is a
definitely a very cool thing that I'd
like. I've been using for MySQL. So this
little setup I've shown you here, they'll
give you a local MySQL installation. You
can use it with Java or PHP or anything
that's going to be connecting to MySQL.
You saw it connected with a client. I
could easily ran Spring Boot against
that, could run against any MySQL client
against this Docker container running
out
MySQL running a Docker container on
localhost here.